within the last half hour the Hamas run
Health Ministry in Gaza has announced
that more than 30,000 Palestinians have
been killed in the territory since the
conflict began on October the 7th well
that number equates to about
1.3% of the 2.3 million population there
let's go live now to Jerusalem and our
Middle East correspondent Yulan Nell so
it's quite a an extraordinary toll isn't
it it is indeed and we're hearing from
the Hamas Swan Health Ministry that
there were more than 80 people killed uh
overnight in the Gaza Strip most of
those actually apparently waiting for
Aid uh in Gaza City um when witnesses
there say that there was shelling uh by
Israeli tanks um and still an unclear
picture um from about exactly what has
happened there um but overall now this
really uh Grim Milestone has been uh
passed the uh Health Ministry in Gaza is
really the only official source source
of data that we have for casualty
numbers um and uh it's the one that's
relied on uh by the UN and others and
it's saying that uh the majority of
those who have been killed are women and
children uh since the 7th of October and
also more than 70,000 people have been
injured as well these figures rely on
bodies being brought in uh to hospitals
or seen uh by medical workers so they
can be uh properly registered um but
actually it's thought that real death
toll is going to be much higher than
this because there are several thousand
people who are still considered as being
missing in Gaza many of them buried
under the rubble of buildings that have
been hit by Israeli air strikes now it's
important to say that these figures do
not differentiate between those who are
civilians and and those uh who are uh
Fighters with Hamas or other groups in
Gaza uh when we've asked the Israeli
military uh for comment here it says
that uh some 10,000 people um terrorist
ists are estimated to have been killed
uh during their their operations and
youand tell us about the latest progress
on any on moves towards a
ceasefire well still uh in the
background here we have this big
diplomatic effort going on to try to get
a new longer term truce agreed that
would see more of the Israeli hostages
held by Hamas in Gaza Freed at the same
time and you have an Israeli delegation
a Hamas delegation who are in in katar
katar of course are key mediators here
and the real hope has been um that a new
deal can be agreed in time for the
Islamic holy month of Ramadan which
starts on about the 10th of March um
there's a lot of us involvement here
President Biden has spoken very
optimistically about an agreement being
in place by the start of next week uh
but the other parties involved have
sounded much more cautious there saying
that there are still um big gaps to be
bridged and I suppose one of the the
issues is is if if they do do an
exchange of of prisoners for for
hostages the concern in Israel is always
who they let out um as they saw that one
of the people who they let out in in a
prison exchange before was someone who
then went on to plan the October the 7th
attacks indeed so it's often mentioned
uh by Israelis that um the biggest
prisoner exchange that there ever was
for an Israeli soldier held captive by
Hamas and Gaza saw the release of Yahya
Sina Who is the local uh Hamas leader in
Gaza seen as a mastermind of the 7th of
October attacks um that of course uh
makes it very difficult for people to
accept the notion of uh these these
prisoner swaps and it is thought um that
in exchange for some 40 of the remaining
Israeli hostages held in Gaza that's um
really a minority of them um that we
would have in exchange for that some 400
Palestinian prisoners released from
Israeli jails this is according to the
reports that have been leaked out and
they would indeed uh we're told include
some who have been convicted of serious
uh offenses of terrorism by Israel um
they would be seen as having Israeli
blood on their hands youan n with the
analysis there from Jerusalem thank you
very much